# SendFileByUrl#

Original URL: https://green-api.com/en/docs/api/sending/SendFileByUrl/

green-api/issues Home Documents Documents Index Quick start Quick start Before you start Plans Execute requests Postman collection API documents API documents Overview Account Account Account - overview Get instance settings Set instance settings Get instance state Reboot instance Logout instance Get QR code Get QR code via websocket Link with phone number Set profile picture Get WhatsApp account information Archive Archive Get instance connection status Sending Sending Sending - overview Send text Send Poll Send video, audio, image, document Send video, audio, image, document via URL Send video, audio, image, document via URL Table of contents Request Request parameters Request body example Response Response parameters Response body example SendFileByUrl errors Request examples Upload file Send location Send contact Forward messages Archive Archive Send Buttons Send Template Buttons Send List Message Receiving Receiving Conception HTTP API HTTP API HTTP API technology Receive notification Delete notification Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint technology Incoming notifications format Incoming notifications format Overview Incoming message Incoming message Incoming messages Incoming text message Incoming text message or URL message Incoming image, video, audio, document message Incoming location message Incoming contact message Incoming contacts array message Incoming buttons message Incoming selection list message Incoming template buttons message Incoming sticker message Incoming reaction message Group invitation incoming message Incoming poll message Incoming poll update message Selecting buttons Selecting buttons Simple button selection Template button selection List element selection Outgoing message Outgoing message Message sent from phone Message sent via API Outgoing message status Others Others Instance status Instance socket status Incoming call Exceeding limitation on plan Objects Objects Incoming webhooks types Archive Archive Quoted message Device status Contact avatar Incoming block Get files Get files Download file from incoming message Journals Journals Journals - review Get chat history Get chat message Get incoming messages journal Get outgoing messages journal Queues Queues Queues - overview Show messages queue Clear messages queue Groups Groups Groups - overview Create group Change group name Get group data Add group participant Delete group participant Set group admin rights Remove group admin rights Set group picture Leave group Statuses (β-version) Statuses (β-version) Statuses - overview Statuses Statuses Send text status Send voice status Send media status Delete status Statistics Statistics Get status statistic History History Get incoming statuses Get outgoing statuses Read mark Read mark Read mark - overview Mark chat as read Service methods Service methods Service methods - overview Check WhatsApp availability Get avatar Get contacts Get Contact Info Delete message Archive Chat UnarchiveChat Change the settings of disappearing chat messages Others Others Chat Id Messages sending delay Common errors Reaching the limits on the Developer plan Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations - overview Creating and configuring an instance Сreating and configuring an instance using the partner key Connecting a phone number to the GREEN API service Tracking the state of an instance Working with incoming calls Using GREEN API Hosts Working with incoming webhooks Rate limiter Archive Archive Device (phone) Device (phone) Device - overview Get device info Partners Partners Overview Get the list of all instances Create instance Delete instance Console Console Overview Registration FAQ FAQ FAQ Mobile App Mobile App How to install the GREEN-API app on Android? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? WhatsApp features WhatsApp features What are the features of sending and receiving messages to numbers of different countries? How to text on WhatsApp first? How to set up device pairing? How to display company name and logo in chats? How to format text and use control characters? How to send emoji or other symbol via the API? How to run a VBA query? How to confirm the security code in WhatsApp? How to use polls as buttons? How to use a proxy server in WhatsApp? How to transfer your WhatsApp account to another phone? How to use the click to chat feature? How to make links in messages active? What are the statuses of messages in WhatsApp? How to identify your WhatsApp subscribers? How to get a green check mark in WhatsApp? How to protect personal data? How to register phone number on WhatsApp? How to log incoming calls in WhatsApp? Working with files via API Working with files via API How to send file by sendFileByUrl method using external storage? How to send a file? What file types does the API support? WhatsApp Errors WhatsApp Errors Why are incoming notifications slow (webhooks)? What to do with the error "WhatsApp is temporarily unavailable. Try again in 1 hour."? Why can not I connect the device to the API? What to do when receiving yellowCard status? Why is logout happening? Why messages are sent slowly? Why is the message status "sent"? What to do when receiving the error "Maximum number of devices connected"? Why does the SWE001 error often occur? Why are members not being added to the group? How can I prevent a QR session from being permanently disconnected? What to do when you receive a "Message Waiting" notification? Why can`t I download or update WhatsApp? Account blocking Account blocking How to protect number from ban? What to do if your instance is locked? What to do if your number is blocked? Why is re-blocking happening? How to make mailings without the risk of blocking? How to implement mailings via CRM? How does the use of the WA Business application affect the risk of blocking? Is there liability for messaging on WhatsApp if Meta Platforms Inc is prohibited in Russia? How to determine if WhatsApp has unblocked my number? What types of blocks can WhatsApp impose? How my WhatsApp number is protected from blocking? SDK Chatbots Integrations Releases Blog News FAQ Table of contents Request Request parameters Request body example Response Response parameters Response body example SendFileByUrl errors Request examples SendFileByUrl# The method is aimed for sending a file uploaded by Url. The message will be added to the send queue. The message will be kept for 24 hours in the queue and will be sent immediately after phone authorization. The rate at which messages are sent from the queue is managed by Message sending delay parameter. To form a link for your file you can use external storages. We recommend using our external file storage via the UploadFile method. Video, audio and image files available for viewing and listening to are sent as in native-mode WhatsApp. Documents are sent in the same way as in native-mode WhatsApp. Outgoing file type and send method is determined by the file extension. Description is only added to images and video. The maximum size of outgoing files is 100 MB. Sending multiple files with one request is not possible. 1 file is sent with only 1 message. The ability to send multiple files at the same time is created only on the side of the WhatsApp application. There are no restrictions on image resolutions. However, when sending images through the API with a resolution exceeding 3000x3000 pixels, thumbnails will not be generated. List of file extensions, that could be successfully sent and received via the API Request# To send a file, you have to execute a request at: POST {{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/sendFileByUrl/{{apiTokenInstance}} For apiUrl, idInstance and apiTokenInstance request parameters, refer to Before you start section. Request parameters# Parameter Type Mandatory Description chatId string Yes Chat Id urlFile string Yes Link to outgoing file fileName string Yes File name. Must contain the file extension. Requires UTF-8 encoding without BOM. For example: test.jpg caption string No File caption. Caption added to video, images. The maximum field length is 20000 characters. quotedMessageId string No Quoted message Id. If present, the message will be sent quoting the specified chat message. Quoting a message is only possible from the same chat to which it is sent. To send messages from another chat, use the ForwardMessages method Note Link format recommendations Symbols a-z, A-Z, 0-9, - (hyphen), _ (underscore) can be used in the link The link must not contain special characters ~$€%#£?! and spaces UTF-8 link character encoding without BOM It is required to transfer non-encoded links (the system encodes the link itself) It is required that the link points to a specific file, and not to the html page link examples Required to use fast storage, no limit on the number of file requests Field fileName It is required to specify the fileName field with the correct file extension. File type detection by the system: By the extension specified in the file name, in the fileName field If the fileName field does not contain an extension, then the file type is obtained by Content-Type from the link header If the Content-Type field in the header is missing or contains a non-existent file type, the system will try to determine the file type based on the bytes of the file If the system cannot determine the file type, it will be sent with the default type (binary file) Time to send a file Sending files occurs in several stages: Receive the file Uploading a file to the WhatsApp server Request to send a file to WhatsApp The time to send a file depends on the file size, the speed of receiving the file and WhatsApp processing the file. Depending on these factors, the time to send a file can vary from 1 to 20 seconds. Quoting messages To quote incoming messages, enable the Receive webhooks on incoming messages and files setting. To quote outgoing messages, enable the Receive webhooks on messages sent from phone and Receive webhooks on messages sent from API settings using the SetSettings method or via the console. Request body example# Sending a message to a personal chat: { "chatId": "11001234567@c.us", "urlFile": "https://my.site.com/img/horse.png", "fileName": "horse.png", "caption": "Little horse" } Sending a message to a group chat: { "chatId": "11001234567-1581234048@g.us", "urlFile": "https://my.site.com/img/horse.png", "fileName": "horse.png", "caption": "Little horse" } Sending a quoted message: { "chatId": "11001234567@с.us", "urlFile": "https://my.site.com/img/horse.png", "fileName": "horse.png", "caption": "Little horse", "quotedMessageId": "361B0E63F2FDF95903B6A9C9A102F34B" } Response# Response parameters# Parameter Type Description idMessage string Outgoing message Id Response body example# { "idMessage": "3EB0C767D097B7C7C030" } SendFileByUrl errors# For a list of errors common to all methods, refer to Common errors section HTTP code Error ID Description 400 Bad Request Validation failed Validation error 400 Validation failed. Details: url has incorrect format. It should start with http(s):// Incorrect URL 500 request entity too large Exceeding the allowed json length (>100kb) Sending with invalid Quoted message ID If the quotedMessageId is specified incorrectly, the system will return code 200 and the id of the message, but it will not be delivered to the recipient. Request examples# PythoncURLJava - SpringJava - UnirestVBA import requests url = "{{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/sendFileByUrl/{{apiTokenInstance}}" payload = { "chatId": "11001234567@c.us", "urlFile": "https://avatars.mds.yandex.net/get-pdb/477388/77f64197-87d2-42cf-9305-14f49c65f1da/s375", "fileName": "horse.png", "caption": "little horse" } headers = { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' } response = requests.post(url, json=payload) print(response.text.encode('utf8')) curl --location '{{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/sendFileByUrl/{{apiTokenInstance}}' \ --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \ --data-raw '{ "chatId": "12345678910@c.us", "urlFile": "https://avatars.mds.yandex.net/get-pdb/477388/77f64197-87d2-42cf-9305-14f49c65f1da/s375", "fileName": "horse.png", "caption": "лошадка" }' var restTemplate = new RestTemplate(); var requestUrl = new StringBuilder(); requestUrl .append({{apiUrl}}) .append("/waInstance").append({{idInstance}}) .append("/sendFileByUrl/") .append({{apiTokenInstance}}); var headers = new HttpHeaders(); headers.setContentType(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON); var jsonBody = "{\r\n \t\"chatId\": \"11001234567@c.us\",\r\n\t\"urlFile\": \"https://avatars.mds.yandex.net/get-pdb/477388/77f64197-87d2-42cf-9305-14f49c65f1da/s375\",\r\n\t\"fileName\": \"horse.png\",\r\n\t\"caption\": \"little horse\"\r\n}"; var requestEntity = new HttpEntity<>(jsonBody, headers); var response = restTemplate.exchange(requestUrl.toString(), HttpMethod.POST, requestEntity, String.class); System.out.println(response); var requestUrl = new StringBuilder(); requestUrl .append({{apiUrl}}) .append("/waInstance").append({{idInstance}}) .append("/sendFileByUrl/") .append({{apiTokenInstance}}); var response = Unirest.post(requestUrl.toString()) .header("Content-Type", "application/json") .body("{\r\n \t\"chatId\": \"11001234567@c.us\",\r\n\t\"urlFile\": \"https://avatars.mds.yandex.net/get-pdb/477388/77f64197-87d2-42cf-9305-14f49c65f1da/s375\",\r\n\t\"fileName\": \"horse.png\",\r\n\t\"caption\": \"little horse\"\r\n}") .asString(); System.out.println(response); Sub SendFileByUrl() Dim url As String Dim RequestBody As String Dim http As Object ' The apiUrl, idInstance and apiTokenInstance values are available in console, double brackets must be removed url = "{{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/SendFileByUrl/{{apiTokenInstance}}" ' chatId is the number to send the message (@c.us for private chats, @g.us for group chats), urlFile - url link, fileName - file name with extension, caption - title RequestBody = "{""chatId"":""90123456789@c.us"",""urlFile"":""https://my.site.com/img/horse.png"",""fileName"":""horse.png"",""caption"":""horse""}" Set http = CreateObject("MSXML2.XMLHTTP") With http .Open "POST", url, False .setRequestHeader "Content-Type", "application/json" .Send RequestBody End With response = http.responseText Debug.Print response ' Outputting the answer to the desired cell ' Range("A1").Value = response Set http = Nothing End Sub