# UploadFile#

Original URL: https://green-api.com/en/docs/api/sending/UploadFile/

green-api/issues Home Documents Documents Index Quick start Quick start Before you start Plans Execute requests Postman collection API documents API documents Overview Account Account Account - overview Get instance settings Set instance settings Get instance state Reboot instance Logout instance Get QR code Get QR code via websocket Link with phone number Set profile picture Get WhatsApp account information Archive Archive Get instance connection status Sending Sending Sending - overview Send text Send Poll Send video, audio, image, document Send video, audio, image, document via URL Upload file Upload file Table of contents Request Request headers Request parameters Request body example Response Response fields Response body example Errors uploadFile Code examples Code example using methods uploadFile + sendFileByUrl Code examples uploadFile Send location Send contact Forward messages Archive Archive Send Buttons Send Template Buttons Send List Message Receiving Receiving Conception HTTP API HTTP API HTTP API technology Receive notification Delete notification Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint technology Incoming notifications format Incoming notifications format Overview Incoming message Incoming message Incoming messages Incoming text message Incoming text message or URL message Incoming image, video, audio, document message Incoming location message Incoming contact message Incoming contacts array message Incoming buttons message Incoming selection list message Incoming template buttons message Incoming sticker message Incoming reaction message Group invitation incoming message Incoming poll message Incoming poll update message Selecting buttons Selecting buttons Simple button selection Template button selection List element selection Outgoing message Outgoing message Message sent from phone Message sent via API Outgoing message status Others Others Instance status Instance socket status Incoming call Exceeding limitation on plan Objects Objects Incoming webhooks types Archive Archive Quoted message Device status Contact avatar Incoming block Get files Get files Download file from incoming message Journals Journals Journals - review Get chat history Get chat message Get incoming messages journal Get outgoing messages journal Queues Queues Queues - overview Show messages queue Clear messages queue Groups Groups Groups - overview Create group Change group name Get group data Add group participant Delete group participant Set group admin rights Remove group admin rights Set group picture Leave group Statuses (β-version) Statuses (β-version) Statuses - overview Statuses Statuses Send text status Send voice status Send media status Delete status Statistics Statistics Get status statistic History History Get incoming statuses Get outgoing statuses Read mark Read mark Read mark - overview Mark chat as read Service methods Service methods Service methods - overview Check WhatsApp availability Get avatar Get contacts Get Contact Info Delete message Archive Chat UnarchiveChat Change the settings of disappearing chat messages Others Others Chat Id Messages sending delay Common errors Reaching the limits on the Developer plan Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations - overview Creating and configuring an instance Сreating and configuring an instance using the partner key Connecting a phone number to the GREEN API service Tracking the state of an instance Working with incoming calls Using GREEN API Hosts Working with incoming webhooks Rate limiter Archive Archive Device (phone) Device (phone) Device - overview Get device info Partners Partners Overview Get the list of all instances Create instance Delete instance Console Console Overview Registration FAQ FAQ FAQ Mobile App Mobile App How to install the GREEN-API app on Android? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? WhatsApp features WhatsApp features What are the features of sending and receiving messages to numbers of different countries? How to text on WhatsApp first? How to set up device pairing? How to display company name and logo in chats? How to format text and use control characters? How to send emoji or other symbol via the API? How to run a VBA query? How to confirm the security code in WhatsApp? How to use polls as buttons? How to use a proxy server in WhatsApp? How to transfer your WhatsApp account to another phone? How to use the click to chat feature? How to make links in messages active? What are the statuses of messages in WhatsApp? How to identify your WhatsApp subscribers? How to get a green check mark in WhatsApp? How to protect personal data? How to register phone number on WhatsApp? How to log incoming calls in WhatsApp? Working with files via API Working with files via API How to send file by sendFileByUrl method using external storage? How to send a file? What file types does the API support? WhatsApp Errors WhatsApp Errors Why are incoming notifications slow (webhooks)? What to do with the error "WhatsApp is temporarily unavailable. Try again in 1 hour."? Why can not I connect the device to the API? What to do when receiving yellowCard status? Why is logout happening? Why messages are sent slowly? Why is the message status "sent"? What to do when receiving the error "Maximum number of devices connected"? Why does the SWE001 error often occur? Why are members not being added to the group? How can I prevent a QR session from being permanently disconnected? What to do when you receive a "Message Waiting" notification? Why can`t I download or update WhatsApp? Account blocking Account blocking How to protect number from ban? What to do if your instance is locked? What to do if your number is blocked? Why is re-blocking happening? How to make mailings without the risk of blocking? How to implement mailings via CRM? How does the use of the WA Business application affect the risk of blocking? Is there liability for messaging on WhatsApp if Meta Platforms Inc is prohibited in Russia? How to determine if WhatsApp has unblocked my number? What types of blocks can WhatsApp impose? How my WhatsApp number is protected from blocking? SDK Chatbots Integrations Releases Blog News FAQ Table of contents Request Request headers Request parameters Request body example Response Response fields Response body example Errors uploadFile Code examples Code example using methods uploadFile + sendFileByUrl Code examples uploadFile UploadFile# For the UploadFile method, we recommend to use the mediaUrl host from console The method is designed to upload a file to the cloud storage, which can be sent using the sendFileByUrl method. It also allows you to avoid errors in receiving files from external storages and speed up sending messages, for example, in a mailing script. An alternative way to send a file by uploading from disk: sendFileByUpload. It is recommended to use the method when sending messages of the same type: Using the UploadFile method, upload the required file to the Green-API storage, receive a link to the file in the response. Use the SendFileByUrl method to send using the received link. Link lifetime is 15 days. The maximum file size that can be sent is 100 MB. The type of file you send and how you send it is determined by the file extension. List of file extensions, that could be successfully sent and received via the API Request# To download a file, you need to make a request to the address: POST {{mediaUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/uploadFile/{{apiTokenInstance}} See the Before you start section to obtain the mediaUrl, idInstance and apiTokenInstance query parameters. Request headers# Parameter Mandatory Description Content-Type Yes Тhe file type in accordance with the list of MIME types . (If the file type is not in the list, then GA-Filename is passed instead of this string) GA-Filename No The file name with the extension, if the file is not in the list of MIME types. For example, files as .go or .py. (If the file type matches the list, the string is not transmitted, only Content-Type is used) If the system cannot determine the file type, it will be sent with the default type (binary file): .bin Request parameters# Parameter Type Mandatory Description file binary Yes Upload file Request body example# You must specify the file itself as the body of the request. Response# Response fields# Field Type Description urlFile string Link to uploaded file How to obtain information about the file upload deadline To obtain the information about the file upload deadline, you need to retrieve information from the link header To do this: Obtain the link to the file Execute a HEAD request with the obtained link From the result, retrieve the value of the X-Amz-Expiration field The obtained value indicates until when the link will be available. As an example the X-Amz-Expiration field, contains the data expiry-date="Fri, 31 May 2024 00:00:00 GMT". Which denotes that the link is available until 05/31/2024 00:00:00 by GMT time zone. Response body example# { "urlFile": "https://sw-media-out.storage.yandexcloud.net/1101123456/c1aabd48-c1c2-49b1-8f2d-f575a41777be.jpg" } Errors uploadFile# For a list of Common errors for all methods, see the Common errors section HTTP code Error ID Description 400 file should not be empty The user submitted an empty file. The uploaded file must not be empty. 413 request entity too large Exceeded file size limit (~99.9mb). Occurs when sending files in 1C processing (version 8.3.22.1923). Possible solution: Change 1C version. 500 Internal Server Error Incorrect method used for request. Change the method to POST and try again Code examples# Code example using methods uploadFile + sendFileByUrl# PHP <?php // Need to use SDK https://github.com/green-api/whatsapp-api-client-php require './vendor/autoload.php'; use GreenApi\RestApi\GreenApiClient; define( "ID_INSTANCE", "1101123456" ); define( "API_TOKEN_INSTANCE", "d75b3a66374942c5b3c019c698abc2067e151558acbd412345" ); $greenApi = new GreenApiClient( ID_INSTANCE, API_TOKEN_INSTANCE, 'http://127.0.0.1:8080' ); $result = $greenApi->sending->uploadFile( 'C:\Games\PicFromDisk.png' ); print_r( $result->data ); $result = $greenApi->sending->sendFileByUrl( '11001234567@c.us', $result->data->urlFile, 'googlelogo_color_272x92dp.png', 'Google logo' ); print_r( $result->data ); Code examples uploadFile# PythoncURLJava - SpringJava - UnirestPHP import requests url = "{{mediaUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/uploadFile/{{apiTokenInstance}}" files = [ ('file', ('window.jpg', open('C:/window.jpg','rb'),'image/jpeg')) ] headers = { 'Content-Type': 'image/jpeg' } response = requests.post(url, files=files, headers=headers) print(response.text.encode('utf8')) curl --location '{{mediaUrl}}/{{idInstance}}/uploadFile/{{apiTokenInstance}}' \ --header 'Content-Type: image/jpeg' \ --data-binary "@/Users/user/Desktop/fileExample.jpeg" var file = new File("/Users/user/Desktop/fileExample.jpeg"); var restTemplate = new RestTemplate(); var requestUrl = new StringBuilder(); requestUrl .append({{mediaUrl}}) .append("/waInstance").append({{idInstance}}) .append("/uploadFile/") .append({{apiTokenInstance}}); var byteArrayResource = new ByteArrayResource(Files.readAllBytes(file.toPath())); var headers = new HttpHeaders(); headers.setContentType(MediaTypeFactory.getMediaType(file.getName()) .orElse(MediaType.APPLICATION_OCTET_STREAM)); var requestEntity = new HttpEntity<>(byteArrayResource, headers); var response = restTemplate.exchange(requestUrl.toString(), HttpMethod.POST, requestEntity, String.class); System.out.println(response); var file = new File("/Users/user/Desktop/fileExample.jpeg"); var requestUrl = new StringBuilder(); requestUrl .append({{mediaUrl}}) .append("/waInstance").append({{idInstance}}) .append("/uploadFile/") .append({{apiTokenInstance}}); var response = Unirest.post(requestUrl.toString()) .header("Content-Type", Files.probeContentType(file.toPath())) .body(Files.readAllBytes(file.toPath())) .asString(); System.out.println(response); <?php // Need to use SDK https://github.com/green-api/whatsapp-api-client-php require './vendor/autoload.php'; use GreenApi\RestApi\GreenApiClient; define( "ID_INSTANCE", "1101123456" ); define( "API_TOKEN_INSTANCE", "d75b3a66374942c5b3c019c698abc2067e151558acbd412345" ); $greenApi = new GreenApiClient( ID_INSTANCE, API_TOKEN_INSTANCE ); $result = $greenApi->sending->uploadFile( 'C:\Games\PicFromDisk.png' ); print_r( $result->data );