# GetAuthorizationCode#

Original URL: https://green-api.com/en/docs/api/account/GetAuthorizationCode#request-example

green-api/issues Home Documents Documents Index Quick start Quick start Before you start Plans Execute requests Postman collection API documents API documents Overview Account Account Account - overview Get instance settings Set instance settings Get instance state Reboot instance Logout instance Get QR code Get QR code via websocket Link with phone number Link with phone number Table of contents Request Request parameters Request body example Response Response parameters Response body example Errors Code Examples Set profile picture Get WhatsApp account information Archive Archive Get instance connection status Sending Sending Sending - overview Send text Send Poll Send video, audio, image, document Send video, audio, image, document via URL Upload file Send location Send contact Forward messages Archive Archive Send Buttons Send Template Buttons Send List Message Receiving Receiving Conception HTTP API HTTP API HTTP API technology Receive notification Delete notification Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint technology Incoming notifications format Incoming notifications format Overview Incoming message Incoming message Incoming messages Incoming text message Incoming text message or URL message Incoming image, video, audio, document message Incoming location message Incoming contact message Incoming contacts array message Incoming buttons message Incoming selection list message Incoming template buttons message Incoming sticker message Incoming reaction message Group invitation incoming message Incoming poll message Incoming poll update message Selecting buttons Selecting buttons Simple button selection Template button selection List element selection Outgoing message Outgoing message Message sent from phone Message sent via API Outgoing message status Others Others Instance status Instance socket status Incoming call Exceeding limitation on plan Objects Objects Incoming webhooks types Archive Archive Quoted message Device status Contact avatar Incoming block Get files Get files Download file from incoming message Journals Journals Journals - review Get chat history Get chat message Get incoming messages journal Get outgoing messages journal Queues Queues Queues - overview Show messages queue Clear messages queue Groups Groups Groups - overview Create group Change group name Get group data Add group participant Delete group participant Set group admin rights Remove group admin rights Set group picture Leave group Statuses (β-version) Statuses (β-version) Statuses - overview Statuses Statuses Send text status Send voice status Send media status Delete status Statistics Statistics Get status statistic History History Get incoming statuses Get outgoing statuses Read mark Read mark Read mark - overview Mark chat as read Service methods Service methods Service methods - overview Check WhatsApp availability Get avatar Get contacts Get Contact Info Delete message Archive Chat UnarchiveChat Change the settings of disappearing chat messages Others Others Chat Id Messages sending delay Common errors Reaching the limits on the Developer plan Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations - overview Creating and configuring an instance Сreating and configuring an instance using the partner key Connecting a phone number to the GREEN API service Tracking the state of an instance Working with incoming calls Using GREEN API Hosts Working with incoming webhooks Rate limiter Archive Archive Device (phone) Device (phone) Device - overview Get device info Partners Partners Overview Get the list of all instances Create instance Delete instance Console Console Overview Registration FAQ FAQ FAQ Mobile App Mobile App How to install the GREEN-API app on Android? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? WhatsApp features WhatsApp features What are the features of sending and receiving messages to numbers of different countries? How to text on WhatsApp first? How to set up device pairing? How to display company name and logo in chats? How to format text and use control characters? How to send emoji or other symbol via the API? How to run a VBA query? How to confirm the security code in WhatsApp? How to use polls as buttons? How to use a proxy server in WhatsApp? How to transfer your WhatsApp account to another phone? How to use the click to chat feature? How to make links in messages active? What are the statuses of messages in WhatsApp? How to identify your WhatsApp subscribers? How to get a green check mark in WhatsApp? How to protect personal data? How to register phone number on WhatsApp? How to log incoming calls in WhatsApp? Working with files via API Working with files via API How to send file by sendFileByUrl method using external storage? How to send a file? What file types does the API support? WhatsApp Errors WhatsApp Errors Why are incoming notifications slow (webhooks)? What to do with the error "WhatsApp is temporarily unavailable. Try again in 1 hour."? Why can not I connect the device to the API? What to do when receiving yellowCard status? Why is logout happening? Why messages are sent slowly? Why is the message status "sent"? What to do when receiving the error "Maximum number of devices connected"? Why does the SWE001 error often occur? Why are members not being added to the group? How can I prevent a QR session from being permanently disconnected? What to do when you receive a "Message Waiting" notification? Why can`t I download or update WhatsApp? Account blocking Account blocking How to protect number from ban? What to do if your instance is locked? What to do if your number is blocked? Why is re-blocking happening? How to make mailings without the risk of blocking? How to implement mailings via CRM? How does the use of the WA Business application affect the risk of blocking? Is there liability for messaging on WhatsApp if Meta Platforms Inc is prohibited in Russia? How to determine if WhatsApp has unblocked my number? What types of blocks can WhatsApp impose? How my WhatsApp number is protected from blocking? SDK Chatbots Integrations Releases Blog News FAQ Table of contents Request Request parameters Request body example Response Response parameters Response body example Errors Code Examples GetAuthorizationCode# The method is intended to authorize an instance by phone number. The method is used as an alternative to the QR method. Authorization process: The official WhatsApp or WhatsApp Business application must be installed on your phone. You need to register in your console and create an instance. In the WhatsApp application, select the menu item "Linked devices" -> "Link a device" -> "Link with phone number instead". Call the GetAuthorizationCode method from console or through Postman collection by indicating your phone number in the body of the request (the phoneNumber field). In response to calling the GetAuthorizationCode method, you will receive 2 fields: status and code. The code for authorization by phone number is valid for approximately 2.5 minutes. Enter the received code in the WhatsApp application, authorization is successful. To receive the code, the instance must be in an unauthorized state. If the instance is authorized, then you first need to log out the instance using the Logout method. The authorization procedure is described in more detail in the section Before you start. After successfully entering the code and authorizing the instance, an incoming notification of the form Instance Status is generated. Request# To retrieve the code, you need to execute a query at: POST {{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/getAuthorizationCode/{{apiTokenInstance}} Refer to Before-Start for the apiUrl, idInstance and apiTokenInstance request parameters. Request parameters# Parameter Type Mandatory Description phoneNumber integer Yes Phone number in international format without + or 00 Request body example# { "phoneNumber": 441234567890 } Response# Response parameters# Field Type Description status boolean Status of code receipt, possible values are true, false. true - Code received successfully false - Code not received. Possible reasons: 1. Instance is already authorized 2. An error occurred while receiving the code (try to receive the code again) code string Authorization code Response body example# { "status": true, "code":"GAPI2018" } It may take up to 30 seconds to receive the code Errors# For a list of errors common to all methods, see Common errors HTTP code Error identifier Description 200 "status": false 1. Instance is already authorized 2. An error occurred while receiving the code (try to receive the code again) 400 Bad Request Validation failed Validation error 400 Validation failed. Details: Wrong format. 'phoneNumber' must contain only digits The number must contain only numbers. Code Examples# PythoncURLJava - UnirestVBA import requests import json url = "{{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/getAuthorizationCode/{{apiTokenInstance}}" payload = json.dumps({ "phoneNumber": 441234567890 }) headers= {} response = requests.post(url, json=payload) print(response.text.encode('utf8')) curl --location 'http://localhost:6001/waInstance9903789715/getAuthorizationCode/f4fc69110b364ecfbc75cdd800d0516e4933b4d4e9574ea688' \ --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \ --data '{ "phoneNumber": 441234567890 }' var requestUrl = new StringBuilder(); requestUrl .append({{apiUrl}}) .append("/waInstance").append({{idInstance}}) .append("/getAuthorizationCode/") .append({{apiTokenInstance}}); var response = Unirest.post(requestUrl.toString()) .header("Content-Type", "application/json") .body("{\n \"phoneNumber\": 441234567890,\n}") .asString(); System.out.println(response); Sub GetAuthorizationCode() Dim url As String Dim RequestBody As String Dim http As Object Dim response As String ' The apiUrl, idInstance and apiTokenInstance values are available in console, double brackets must be removed url = "{{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/getAuthorizationCode/{{apiTokenInstance}}" ' phoneNumber - Phone number in international format without + and 00 RequestBody = "{""phoneNumber"":79123456780}" Set http = CreateObject("MSXML2.XMLHTTP") With http .Open "POST", url, False .setRequestHeader "Content-Type", "application/json" .send RequestBody End With response = http.responseText Debug.Print response ' Outputting the answer to the desired cell Range("A1").Value = response Set http = Nothing End Sub