# SetSettings#

Original URL: https://green-api.com/en/docs/api/account/SetSettings/

green-api/issues Home Documents Documents Index Quick start Quick start Before you start Plans Execute requests Postman collection API documents API documents Overview Account Account Account - overview Get instance settings Set instance settings Set instance settings Table of contents Request Request parameters General request body example Response Response parameters Response body example SetSettings errors Request examples Get instance state Reboot instance Logout instance Get QR code Get QR code via websocket Link with phone number Set profile picture Get WhatsApp account information Archive Archive Get instance connection status Sending Sending Sending - overview Send text Send Poll Send video, audio, image, document Send video, audio, image, document via URL Upload file Send location Send contact Forward messages Archive Archive Send Buttons Send Template Buttons Send List Message Receiving Receiving Conception HTTP API HTTP API HTTP API technology Receive notification Delete notification Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint technology Incoming notifications format Incoming notifications format Overview Incoming message Incoming message Incoming messages Incoming text message Incoming text message or URL message Incoming image, video, audio, document message Incoming location message Incoming contact message Incoming contacts array message Incoming buttons message Incoming selection list message Incoming template buttons message Incoming sticker message Incoming reaction message Group invitation incoming message Incoming poll message Incoming poll update message Selecting buttons Selecting buttons Simple button selection Template button selection List element selection Outgoing message Outgoing message Message sent from phone Message sent via API Outgoing message status Others Others Instance status Instance socket status Incoming call Exceeding limitation on plan Objects Objects Incoming webhooks types Archive Archive Quoted message Device status Contact avatar Incoming block Get files Get files Download file from incoming message Journals Journals Journals - review Get chat history Get chat message Get incoming messages journal Get outgoing messages journal Queues Queues Queues - overview Show messages queue Clear messages queue Groups Groups Groups - overview Create group Change group name Get group data Add group participant Delete group participant Set group admin rights Remove group admin rights Set group picture Leave group Statuses (β-version) Statuses (β-version) Statuses - overview Statuses Statuses Send text status Send voice status Send media status Delete status Statistics Statistics Get status statistic History History Get incoming statuses Get outgoing statuses Read mark Read mark Read mark - overview Mark chat as read Service methods Service methods Service methods - overview Check WhatsApp availability Get avatar Get contacts Get Contact Info Delete message Archive Chat UnarchiveChat Change the settings of disappearing chat messages Others Others Chat Id Messages sending delay Common errors Reaching the limits on the Developer plan Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations - overview Creating and configuring an instance Сreating and configuring an instance using the partner key Connecting a phone number to the GREEN API service Tracking the state of an instance Working with incoming calls Using GREEN API Hosts Working with incoming webhooks Rate limiter Archive Archive Device (phone) Device (phone) Device - overview Get device info Partners Partners Overview Get the list of all instances Create instance Delete instance Console Console Overview Registration FAQ FAQ FAQ Mobile App Mobile App How to install the GREEN-API app on Android? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? WhatsApp features WhatsApp features What are the features of sending and receiving messages to numbers of different countries? How to text on WhatsApp first? How to set up device pairing? How to display company name and logo in chats? How to format text and use control characters? How to send emoji or other symbol via the API? How to run a VBA query? How to confirm the security code in WhatsApp? How to use polls as buttons? How to use a proxy server in WhatsApp? How to transfer your WhatsApp account to another phone? How to use the click to chat feature? How to make links in messages active? What are the statuses of messages in WhatsApp? How to identify your WhatsApp subscribers? How to get a green check mark in WhatsApp? How to protect personal data? How to register phone number on WhatsApp? How to log incoming calls in WhatsApp? Working with files via API Working with files via API How to send file by sendFileByUrl method using external storage? How to send a file? What file types does the API support? WhatsApp Errors WhatsApp Errors Why are incoming notifications slow (webhooks)? What to do with the error "WhatsApp is temporarily unavailable. Try again in 1 hour."? Why can not I connect the device to the API? What to do when receiving yellowCard status? Why is logout happening? Why messages are sent slowly? Why is the message status "sent"? What to do when receiving the error "Maximum number of devices connected"? Why does the SWE001 error often occur? Why are members not being added to the group? How can I prevent a QR session from being permanently disconnected? What to do when you receive a "Message Waiting" notification? Why can`t I download or update WhatsApp? Account blocking Account blocking How to protect number from ban? What to do if your instance is locked? What to do if your number is blocked? Why is re-blocking happening? How to make mailings without the risk of blocking? How to implement mailings via CRM? How does the use of the WA Business application affect the risk of blocking? Is there liability for messaging on WhatsApp if Meta Platforms Inc is prohibited in Russia? How to determine if WhatsApp has unblocked my number? What types of blocks can WhatsApp impose? How my WhatsApp number is protected from blocking? SDK Chatbots Integrations Releases Blog News FAQ Table of contents Request Request parameters General request body example Response Response parameters Response body example SetSettings errors Request examples SetSettings# The method is aimed for setting instance settings. When this method is requested, the instance is rebooted. The settings are applied within 5 minutes after invoking the setSettings method. After creating an instance, all settings are turned off by default. Request# To set instance settings, you have to execute a request at: POST {{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/setSettings/{{apiTokenInstance}} For apiUrl, idInstance and apiTokenInstance request parameters, refer to Before you start section. Request parameters# Selective specification of parameters is allowed. At least one parameter must be specified. Parameter Type Mandatory Description webhookUrl string No URL for sending notifications. If it is required to disable getting notifications, then specify an empty string. When receiving notifications with HTTP API technology, the field must be empty. Description of how the field works. webhookUrlToken string No Token to access your notification server, if not required, then specify an empty string. Description of how the field works. delaySendMessagesMilliseconds integer No Message sending delay is in milliseconds. Minimum value is 500 msec. Maximum value 86400000 msec markIncomingMessagesReaded string No Mark incoming messages as read or not, possible variants: yes,no. Ignored if markIncomingMessagesReadedOnReply is 'yes'. markIncomingMessagesReadedOnReply string No Mark incoming messages as read when posting a message to the chat via API, possible variants: yes,no. If it is 'yes', then the markIncomingMessagesReaded setting is ignored. sharedSession string No Deprecated countryInstance string No Deprecated outgoingWebhook string No Get notifications about outgoing messages sending/delivering/reading statuses, possible variants: yes,no. noAccount and failed statuses cannot be disabled, it is necessary to implement the processing of this notification. outgoingMessageWebhook string No Get notifications about messages sent from the phone, possible variants: yes,no outgoingAPIMessageWebhook string No Get notifications about messages sent from API, possible variants: yes,no. When sending a message to a non-existing WhatsApp account, the notification will not come. stateWebhook string No Get notifications about the instance authorization state change, possible variants: yes,no incomingWebhook string No Get notifications about incoming messages and files, possible variants: yes,no deviceWebhook string No Temporarily not working. Get notifications about the device (phone) and battery level, possible variants: yes,no statusInstanceWebhook string No Deprecated enableMessagesHistory string No Deprecated keepOnlineStatus string No Sets the 'Online' status for your account pollMessageWebhook string No Get notifications about the creation of a poll and voting in the poll, possible variants: yes, no incomingBlockWebhook string No Temporarily not working. Get notifications about adding a chat to the list of blocked contacts, possible variants: yes, no incomingCallWebhook string No Get notifications about incoming call statuses, possible variants: yes, no Applying settings To receive notifications regarding the statuses of sending/delivery/read receipts of messages sent from a mobile phone, it is necessary to enable the following settings: outgoingMessageWebhook outgoingWebhook To receive notifications about the statuses of an incoming call, it is necessary to enable the following settings: incomingCallWebhook incomingWebhook The pollMessageWebhook setting is activated only when the following parameters are enabled: outgoingAPIMessageWebhook for messages sent via the API outgoingMessageWebhook for messages sent from the phone incomingWebhook for incoming messages If your phone and linked devices are turned off, you need to enable the setting: keepOnlineStatus to set the Online status for your account and send the message status delivered General request body example# { "webhookUrl": "https://mysite.com/webhook/green-api/", "webhookUrlToken": "", "delaySendMessagesMilliseconds": 5000, "markIncomingMessagesReaded": "no", "markIncomingMessagesReadedOnReply": "no", "outgoingWebhook": "yes", "outgoingMessageWebhook": "yes", "outgoingAPIMessageWebhook": "yes", "incomingWebhook": "yes", "deviceWebhook": "no", // The notification is temporarily out of work "stateWebhook": "yes", "keepOnlineStatus": "no", "pollMessageWebhook": "no", "incomingBlockWebhook": "yes", // The notification is temporarily out of work "incomingCallWebhook": "yes" } Response# Response parameters# Parameter Type Description saveSettings boolean Flag that the settings are saved Response body example# { "saveSettings": true } SetSettings errors# For a list of errors common to all methods, refer to Common errors section Request examples# PythoncURLJava - SpringJava - UnirestVBA import requests url = "{{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/setSettings/{{apiTokenInstance}}" payload = "{\r\n\t\"webhookUrl\": \"https://mysite.ru\",\r\n\t\"delaySendMessagesMilliseconds\": 1000,\r\n\t\"markIncomingMessagesReaded\": \"no\",\r\n\t\"outgoingWebhook\": \"yes\",\r\n\t\"stateWebhook\": \"yes\",\r\n\t\"incomingWebhook\": \"yes\",\r\n\t\"deviceWebhook\": \"no\"\r\n}" headers = { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' } response = requests.request("POST", url, headers=headers, data=payload) print(response.text.encode('utf8')) curl --location '{{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/setSettings/{{apiTokenInstance}}' \ --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \ --data '{ "delaySendMessagesMilliseconds": 15000 }' var restTemplate = new RestTemplate(); var requestUrl = new StringBuilder(); requestUrl .append({{apiUrl}}) .append("/waInstance").append({{idInstance}}) .append("/setSettings/") .append({{apiTokenInstance}}); var headers = new HttpHeaders(); headers.setContentType(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON); var jsonBody = "{\"delaySendMessagesMilliseconds\": 15000}"; var requestEntity = new HttpEntity<>(jsonBody, headers); var response = restTemplate.exchange(requestUrl.toString(), HttpMethod.POST, requestEntity, String.class); System.out.println(response); var requestUrl = new StringBuilder(); requestUrl .append({{apiUrl}}) .append("/waInstance").append({{idInstance}}) .append("/setSettings/") .append({{apiTokenInstance}}); var response = Unirest.post(requestUrl.toString()) .header("Content-Type", "application/json") .body("{\"delaySendMessagesMilliseconds\": 15000}") .asString(); System.out.println(response); Sub SetSettings() Dim url As String Dim RequestBody As String Dim http As Object Dim response As String ' The apiUrl, idInstance and apiTokenInstance values are available in console, double brackets must be removed url = "{{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/SetSettings/{{apiTokenInstance}}" ' parameters obtained by the GetSettings method that need to be changed RequestBody = "{""webhookUrl"":"""",""delaySendMessagesMilliseconds"":""1000"",""markIncomingMessagesReaded"":""yes"",""outgoingWebhook"":""yes"",""stateWebhook"":""yes"",""incomingWebhook"":""yes"",""incomingBlockWebhook"":""yes""}" Set http = CreateObject("MSXML2.XMLHTTP") With http .Open "POST", url, False .setRequestHeader "Content-Type", "application/json" .Send RequestBody End With response = http.responseText Debug.Print response ' Outputting the answer to the desired cell ' Range("A1").Value = response Set http = Nothing End Sub