# SendTextStatus#

Original URL: https://green-api.com/en/docs/api/statuses/SendTextStatus/

green-api/issues Home Documents Documents Index Quick start Quick start Before you start Plans Execute requests Postman collection API documents API documents Overview Account Account Account - overview Get instance settings Set instance settings Get instance state Reboot instance Logout instance Get QR code Get QR code via websocket Link with phone number Set profile picture Get WhatsApp account information Archive Archive Get instance connection status Sending Sending Sending - overview Send text Send Poll Send video, audio, image, document Send video, audio, image, document via URL Upload file Send location Send contact Forward messages Archive Archive Send Buttons Send Template Buttons Send List Message Receiving Receiving Conception HTTP API HTTP API HTTP API technology Receive notification Delete notification Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint technology Incoming notifications format Incoming notifications format Overview Incoming message Incoming message Incoming messages Incoming text message Incoming text message or URL message Incoming image, video, audio, document message Incoming location message Incoming contact message Incoming contacts array message Incoming buttons message Incoming selection list message Incoming template buttons message Incoming sticker message Incoming reaction message Group invitation incoming message Incoming poll message Incoming poll update message Selecting buttons Selecting buttons Simple button selection Template button selection List element selection Outgoing message Outgoing message Message sent from phone Message sent via API Outgoing message status Others Others Instance status Instance socket status Incoming call Exceeding limitation on plan Objects Objects Incoming webhooks types Archive Archive Quoted message Device status Contact avatar Incoming block Get files Get files Download file from incoming message Journals Journals Journals - review Get chat history Get chat message Get incoming messages journal Get outgoing messages journal Queues Queues Queues - overview Show messages queue Clear messages queue Groups Groups Groups - overview Create group Change group name Get group data Add group participant Delete group participant Set group admin rights Remove group admin rights Set group picture Leave group Statuses (β-version) Statuses (β-version) Statuses - overview Statuses Statuses Send text status Send text status Table of contents Request Request parameters Request body example Response Response parameters Response body example SendTextStatus errors Request examples Send voice status Send media status Delete status Statistics Statistics Get status statistic History History Get incoming statuses Get outgoing statuses Read mark Read mark Read mark - overview Mark chat as read Service methods Service methods Service methods - overview Check WhatsApp availability Get avatar Get contacts Get Contact Info Delete message Archive Chat UnarchiveChat Change the settings of disappearing chat messages Others Others Chat Id Messages sending delay Common errors Reaching the limits on the Developer plan Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations - overview Creating and configuring an instance Сreating and configuring an instance using the partner key Connecting a phone number to the GREEN API service Tracking the state of an instance Working with incoming calls Using GREEN API Hosts Working with incoming webhooks Rate limiter Archive Archive Device (phone) Device (phone) Device - overview Get device info Partners Partners Overview Get the list of all instances Create instance Delete instance Console Console Overview Registration FAQ FAQ FAQ Mobile App Mobile App How to install the GREEN-API app on Android? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? WhatsApp features WhatsApp features What are the features of sending and receiving messages to numbers of different countries? How to text on WhatsApp first? How to set up device pairing? How to display company name and logo in chats? How to format text and use control characters? How to send emoji or other symbol via the API? How to run a VBA query? How to confirm the security code in WhatsApp? How to use polls as buttons? How to use a proxy server in WhatsApp? How to transfer your WhatsApp account to another phone? How to use the click to chat feature? How to make links in messages active? What are the statuses of messages in WhatsApp? How to identify your WhatsApp subscribers? How to get a green check mark in WhatsApp? How to protect personal data? How to register phone number on WhatsApp? How to log incoming calls in WhatsApp? Working with files via API Working with files via API How to send file by sendFileByUrl method using external storage? How to send a file? What file types does the API support? WhatsApp Errors WhatsApp Errors Why are incoming notifications slow (webhooks)? What to do with the error "WhatsApp is temporarily unavailable. Try again in 1 hour."? Why can not I connect the device to the API? What to do when receiving yellowCard status? Why is logout happening? Why messages are sent slowly? Why is the message status "sent"? What to do when receiving the error "Maximum number of devices connected"? Why does the SWE001 error often occur? Why are members not being added to the group? How can I prevent a QR session from being permanently disconnected? What to do when you receive a "Message Waiting" notification? Why can`t I download or update WhatsApp? Account blocking Account blocking How to protect number from ban? What to do if your instance is locked? What to do if your number is blocked? Why is re-blocking happening? How to make mailings without the risk of blocking? How to implement mailings via CRM? How does the use of the WA Business application affect the risk of blocking? Is there liability for messaging on WhatsApp if Meta Platforms Inc is prohibited in Russia? How to determine if WhatsApp has unblocked my number? What types of blocks can WhatsApp impose? How my WhatsApp number is protected from blocking? SDK Chatbots Integrations Releases Blog News FAQ Table of contents Request Request parameters Request body example Response Response parameters Response body example SendTextStatus errors Request examples SendTextStatus# Beta version The functionality is in beta mode. Features are subject to change and may also work unstably. There may be additional charges for functionality in the future. You can request access to the functionality via Green API support The method is aimed for sending a text status. The status will be added to the queue. The status will be kept for 24 hours in the queue until instance will be authorized. The rate at which statuses are sent from the queue is managed by Message sending delay parameter. Important In order for the recipient to see the sender’s statuses, both parties must save the numbers of the interlocutors to the contact list The contact list is fetched using the GetContacts method based on the contactName field. To get an updated contact list, you need to rename a contact and re-authorize by rescanning the QR code. Statuses are sent only to the first 1024 contacts from the GetContacts method with a valid contactName field. Request# To send a text status, you have to execute a request at: POST {{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/sendTextStatus/{{apiTokenInstance}} For apiUrl, idInstance and apiTokenInstance request parameters, refer to Before you start section. Request parameters# Parameter Type Mandatory Description message string Yes Message text. Emoji 😃 characters supported. Requires UTF-8 encoding without BOM backgroundColor string No Message background. Default: #FFFFFF. Example site for getting the background color value. Important! The background color should be changed to anything other than white. The status text is published in white characters. font string No Text font. Accepts values: SERIF - Here is how your text will look SANS_SERIF - Here is how your text will look NORICAN_REGULAR - Here is how your text will look The font is used only for Latin letters BRYNDAN_WRITE - Here is how your text will look OSWALD_HEAVY - Here is how your text will look participants array No An array of strings with contact IDs for whom the status will be available. If the field value is empty,"participants": [], the status will be available to all contacts. The maximum length of a text message is 500 characters If non-existent numbers are added to the participants field, the status will not be sent to these numbers Request body example# Sending a status: { "message": "I use Green-API to send this Status!", "backgroundColor": "#228B22", // (#FFFFFF) It is not recommended to use a white background "font": "SERIF", "participants": ["70000001234@c.us", "440000001234@c.us"] // status will be available only to the specified contacts } Response# Response parameters# Parameter Type Description idMessage string Sent message Id Response body example# { "idMessage": "3EB0C767D097B7C7C030" } SendTextStatus errors# For a list of errors common to all methods, refer to Common errors section HTTP code Error identifier Description 403 Forbidden There is no access to the functionality of the beta version of the status methods. You can request access to the functionality via Green API support Request examples# PythonPHPcURLJava - SpringJava - Unirest import requests import json url = "{{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/sendTextStatus/{{apiTokenInstance}}" payload = json.dumps({ "message": "I use Green-API to send this Status!", "backgroundColor": "#228B22", "font": "SERIF", "participants": [ "70000001234@c.us", "440000001234@c.us" ] }) headers = { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' } response = requests.post(url, json=payload) print(response.text.encode('utf8')) <?php //The apiUrl, idInstance and apiTokenInstance values are available in console, double brackets must be removed $url = '{{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/sendTextStatus/{{apiTokenInstance}}'; //chatId is the number to send the message to (@c.us for private chats, @g.us for group chats) $data = array( "message": "I use Green-API to send this Status!", "backgroundColor": "#228B22", "font": "SERIF", "participants": ["70000001234@c.us", "440000001234@c.us"] ); $options = array( 'http' => array( 'header' => "Content-Type: application/json\r\n", 'method' => 'POST', 'content' => json_encode($data) ) ); $context = stream_context_create($options); $response = file_get_contents($url, false, $context); echo $response; ?> curl --location '{{apiUrl}}/waInstance{{idInstance}}/sendTextStatus/{{apiTokenInstance}}' \ --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \ --data-raw '{ "message": "I use Green-API to send this Status!", "backgroundColor": "#228B22", "font": "SERIF", "participants": ["70000001234@c.us", "440000001234@c.us"] }' var restTemplate = new RestTemplate(); var requestUrl = new StringBuilder(); requestUrl .append({{apiUrl}}) .append("/waInstance").append({{idInstance}}) .append("/sendTextStatus/") .append({{apiTokenInstance}}); var headers = new HttpHeaders(); headers.setContentType(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON); var jsonBody = "{\r\n\t \"message\": \"I use Green-API to send this Status!\",\r\n\t \"backgroundColor\": \"#228B22\",\r\n\t \"font\": \"SERIF\",\r\n\t \"participants\": [\"70000001234@c.us\", \"440000001234@c.us\"]\r\n}"; var requestEntity = new HttpEntity<>(jsonBody, headers); var response = restTemplate.exchange(requestUrl.toString(), HttpMethod.POST, requestEntity, String.class); System.out.println(response); var requestUrl = new StringBuilder(); requestUrl .append({{apiUrl}}) .append("/waInstance").append({{idInstance}}) .append("/sendTextStatus/") .append({{apiTokenInstance}}); var response = Unirest.post(requestUrl.toString()) .header("Content-Type", "application/json") .body("{\r\n\t \"message\": \"I use Green-API to send this Status!\",\r\n\t \"backgroundColor\": \"#228B22\",\r\n\t \"font\": \"SERIF\",\r\n\t \"participants\": [\"70000001234@c.us\", \"440000001234@c.us\"]\r\n}") .asString(); System.out.println(response);