# Outgoing message status#

Original URL: https://green-api.com/en/docs/api/receiving/notifications-format/outgoing-message/OutgoingMessageStatus/

green-api/issues Home Documents Documents Index Quick start Quick start Before you start Plans Execute requests Postman collection API documents API documents Overview Account Account Account - overview Get instance settings Set instance settings Get instance state Reboot instance Logout instance Get QR code Get QR code via websocket Link with phone number Set profile picture Get WhatsApp account information Archive Archive Get instance connection status Sending Sending Sending - overview Send text Send Poll Send video, audio, image, document Send video, audio, image, document via URL Upload file Send location Send contact Forward messages Archive Archive Send Buttons Send Template Buttons Send List Message Receiving Receiving Conception HTTP API HTTP API HTTP API technology Receive notification Delete notification Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint technology Incoming notifications format Incoming notifications format Overview Incoming message Incoming message Incoming messages Incoming text message Incoming text message or URL message Incoming image, video, audio, document message Incoming location message Incoming contact message Incoming contacts array message Incoming buttons message Incoming selection list message Incoming template buttons message Incoming sticker message Incoming reaction message Group invitation incoming message Incoming poll message Incoming poll update message Selecting buttons Selecting buttons Simple button selection Template button selection List element selection Outgoing message Outgoing message Message sent from phone Message sent via API Outgoing message status Outgoing message status Table of contents Webhook Webhook parameters Webhook example with status sent Webhook example with status delivered Webhook example with status read Webhook example when the sender is not in the group they're sending to Webhook example when there is no WhatsApp account on the number Webhook example with error SWE004 Others Others Instance status Instance socket status Incoming call Exceeding limitation on plan Objects Objects Incoming webhooks types Archive Archive Quoted message Device status Contact avatar Incoming block Get files Get files Download file from incoming message Journals Journals Journals - review Get chat history Get chat message Get incoming messages journal Get outgoing messages journal Queues Queues Queues - overview Show messages queue Clear messages queue Groups Groups Groups - overview Create group Change group name Get group data Add group participant Delete group participant Set group admin rights Remove group admin rights Set group picture Leave group Statuses (β-version) Statuses (β-version) Statuses - overview Statuses Statuses Send text status Send voice status Send media status Delete status Statistics Statistics Get status statistic History History Get incoming statuses Get outgoing statuses Read mark Read mark Read mark - overview Mark chat as read Service methods Service methods Service methods - overview Check WhatsApp availability Get avatar Get contacts Get Contact Info Delete message Archive Chat UnarchiveChat Change the settings of disappearing chat messages Others Others Chat Id Messages sending delay Common errors Reaching the limits on the Developer plan Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations - overview Creating and configuring an instance Сreating and configuring an instance using the partner key Connecting a phone number to the GREEN API service Tracking the state of an instance Working with incoming calls Using GREEN API Hosts Working with incoming webhooks Rate limiter Archive Archive Device (phone) Device (phone) Device - overview Get device info Partners Partners Overview Get the list of all instances Create instance Delete instance Console Console Overview Registration FAQ FAQ FAQ Mobile App Mobile App How to install the GREEN-API app on Android? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? WhatsApp features WhatsApp features What are the features of sending and receiving messages to numbers of different countries? How to text on WhatsApp first? How to set up device pairing? How to display company name and logo in chats? How to format text and use control characters? How to send emoji or other symbol via the API? How to run a VBA query? How to confirm the security code in WhatsApp? How to use polls as buttons? How to use a proxy server in WhatsApp? How to transfer your WhatsApp account to another phone? How to use the click to chat feature? How to make links in messages active? What are the statuses of messages in WhatsApp? How to identify your WhatsApp subscribers? How to get a green check mark in WhatsApp? How to protect personal data? How to register phone number on WhatsApp? How to log incoming calls in WhatsApp? Working with files via API Working with files via API How to send file by sendFileByUrl method using external storage? How to send a file? What file types does the API support? WhatsApp Errors WhatsApp Errors Why are incoming notifications slow (webhooks)? What to do with the error "WhatsApp is temporarily unavailable. Try again in 1 hour."? Why can not I connect the device to the API? What to do when receiving yellowCard status? Why is logout happening? Why messages are sent slowly? Why is the message status "sent"? What to do when receiving the error "Maximum number of devices connected"? Why does the SWE001 error often occur? Why are members not being added to the group? How can I prevent a QR session from being permanently disconnected? What to do when you receive a "Message Waiting" notification? Why can`t I download or update WhatsApp? Account blocking Account blocking How to protect number from ban? What to do if your instance is locked? What to do if your number is blocked? Why is re-blocking happening? How to make mailings without the risk of blocking? How to implement mailings via CRM? How does the use of the WA Business application affect the risk of blocking? Is there liability for messaging on WhatsApp if Meta Platforms Inc is prohibited in Russia? How to determine if WhatsApp has unblocked my number? What types of blocks can WhatsApp impose? How my WhatsApp number is protected from blocking? SDK Chatbots Integrations Releases Blog News FAQ Table of contents Webhook Webhook parameters Webhook example with status sent Webhook example with status delivered Webhook example with status read Webhook example when the sender is not in the group they're sending to Webhook example when there is no WhatsApp account on the number Webhook example with error SWE004 Outgoing message status# Incoming webhook of this type contains the status of a previously sent message: sent, delivered, read, etc. Configuring an instance To receive incoming notifications about messages sent via API, you need to enable the settings using one of the following options: Through console enable the settings Get notifications about messages sent from API, Get notifications about messages sent from the phone and Get notifications about outgoing messages sending/delivering/reading statuses Through the SetSettings method enable the settings outgoingAPIMessageWebhook outgoingMessageWebhook and outgoing Webhook Read more about the statuses of sent messages in WhatsApp in our article Webhook# Webhook parameters# Parameter Type Description typeWebhook string Incoming webhook type. For webhooks of this type the parameter takes on the value outgoingMessageStatus chatId string Chat Id. Chat with a message for which you received the status. instanceData object Instance data timestamp integer Event timestamp in UNIX format idMessage string Outgoing message or file Id. Outgoing message Id is returned by methods: SendMessage, SendFileByUrl, SendFileByUpload, SendLocation, SendContact, SendPoll status string Outgoing message or file status. Status takes on the values: sent - message sent delivered - message delivered to the recipient read - message read/viewed/heard by the recipient failed - an error occurred while sending a message to WhatsApp server (this status cannot be disabled in the settings SetSettings, it is necessary to implement the processing of this notification) failed - the recipient's phone number does not have a WhatsApp account (this status cannot be disabled in the settings SetSettings, it is necessary to implement the processing of this notification) notInGroup - the sender is not a participant of a group chat where the message is being sent to yellowCard - Suspension of sending messages due to spam activity. Messages sent after receiving the status are stored in the queue to be sent for 24 hours. To continue running the instance, you need to do a reboot of the instance. description string Error description (it is recommended to inform the operator about system errors) sendByApi boolean Is the message sent through API: true , false instanceData object parameters Parameter Type Description idInstance integer Instance Id. The size of the integer is int64. Values ​​range include from 1 to 10 digits wid string Account Id in WhatsApp format typeInstance string Instance messenger type Webhook example with status sent# { "typeWebhook": "outgoingMessageStatus", "chatId": "11001234567890@c.us", "instanceData": { "idInstance": 1234, "wid": "11001234567@c.us", "typeInstance": "whatsapp" }, "timestamp": 1727691478, "idMessage": "3EB0608D6A2901063D63", "status": "sent", "sendByApi": true } Webhook example with status delivered# { "typeWebhook": "outgoingMessageStatus", "chatId": "11001234567890@c.us", "instanceData": { "idInstance": 1234, "wid": "11001234567@c.us", "typeInstance": "whatsapp" }, "timestamp": 1727698517, "idMessage": "3EB0608D6A2901063D63", "status": "delivered", "sendByApi": true } Webhook example with status read# { "typeWebhook": "outgoingMessageStatus", "chatId": "11001234567890@c.us", "instanceData": { "idInstance": 1234, "wid": "11001234567@c.us", "typeInstance": "whatsapp" }, "timestamp": 1727698597, "idMessage": "3EB0608D6A2901063D63", "status": "read", "sendByApi": true } Webhook example when the sender is not in the group they're sending to# { "typeWebhook": "outgoingMessageStatus", "chatId": "120363347693198097@g.us", "instanceData": { "idInstance": 1234, "wid": "11001234567@c.us", "typeInstance": "whatsapp" }, "timestamp": 1727760222, "idMessage": "BAE5245994546A06", "status": "failed", "description": "Error: item-not-found", "sendByApi": true } Webhook example when there is no WhatsApp account on the number# { "typeWebhook": "outgoingMessageStatus", "chatId": "11001234567890@c.us", "instanceData": { "idInstance": 1234, "wid": "11001234567@c.us", "typeInstance": "whatsapp" }, "timestamp": 1727759586, "idMessage": "3EB0608D6A2901063D63", "status": "noAccount", "sendByApi": true } Webhook example with error SWE004# { "typeWebhook": "outgoingMessageStatus", "chatId": "11001234567890@c.us", "instanceData": { "idInstance": 1234, "wid": "11001234567@c.us", "typeInstance": "whatsapp" }, "timestamp": 1586700802, "idMessage": "3EB0608D6A2901063D63", "status": "failed", "description":"SWE004: the number of participants in the group has been exceeded - 706", // 706 - количество участников в группе "sendByApi": true }