# Receive webhooks via Webhook Endpoint#

Original URL: https://green-api.com/en/docs/api/receiving/technology-webhook-endpoint/

green-api/issues Home Documents Documents Index Quick start Quick start Before you start Plans Execute requests Postman collection API documents API documents Overview Account Account Account - overview Get instance settings Set instance settings Get instance state Reboot instance Logout instance Get QR code Get QR code via websocket Link with phone number Set profile picture Get WhatsApp account information Archive Archive Get instance connection status Sending Sending Sending - overview Send text Send Poll Send video, audio, image, document Send video, audio, image, document via URL Upload file Send location Send contact Forward messages Archive Archive Send Buttons Send Template Buttons Send List Message Receiving Receiving Conception HTTP API HTTP API HTTP API technology Receive notification Delete notification Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint Webhook Endpoint technology Webhook Endpoint technology Table of contents Video instruction Server setting Public IP address Our public IP-addresses which we sent webhooks from Incoming webhooks processing Instance setup Setting by SetSettings method Example of SetSettings method request body Setup in console Receive incoming webhooks Debug incoming webhooks Incoming notifications format Incoming notifications format Overview Incoming message Incoming message Incoming messages Incoming text message Incoming text message or URL message Incoming image, video, audio, document message Incoming location message Incoming contact message Incoming contacts array message Incoming buttons message Incoming selection list message Incoming template buttons message Incoming sticker message Incoming reaction message Group invitation incoming message Incoming poll message Incoming poll update message Selecting buttons Selecting buttons Simple button selection Template button selection List element selection Outgoing message Outgoing message Message sent from phone Message sent via API Outgoing message status Others Others Instance status Instance socket status Incoming call Exceeding limitation on plan Objects Objects Incoming webhooks types Archive Archive Quoted message Device status Contact avatar Incoming block Get files Get files Download file from incoming message Journals Journals Journals - review Get chat history Get chat message Get incoming messages journal Get outgoing messages journal Queues Queues Queues - overview Show messages queue Clear messages queue Groups Groups Groups - overview Create group Change group name Get group data Add group participant Delete group participant Set group admin rights Remove group admin rights Set group picture Leave group Statuses (β-version) Statuses (β-version) Statuses - overview Statuses Statuses Send text status Send voice status Send media status Delete status Statistics Statistics Get status statistic History History Get incoming statuses Get outgoing statuses Read mark Read mark Read mark - overview Mark chat as read Service methods Service methods Service methods - overview Check WhatsApp availability Get avatar Get contacts Get Contact Info Delete message Archive Chat UnarchiveChat Change the settings of disappearing chat messages Others Others Chat Id Messages sending delay Common errors Reaching the limits on the Developer plan Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations Integration Recommendations - overview Creating and configuring an instance Сreating and configuring an instance using the partner key Connecting a phone number to the GREEN API service Tracking the state of an instance Working with incoming calls Using GREEN API Hosts Working with incoming webhooks Rate limiter Archive Archive Device (phone) Device (phone) Device - overview Get device info Partners Partners Overview Get the list of all instances Create instance Delete instance Console Console Overview Registration FAQ FAQ FAQ Mobile App Mobile App How to install the GREEN-API app on Android? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? How to properly use materials from the GREEN-API on another website? WhatsApp features WhatsApp features What are the features of sending and receiving messages to numbers of different countries? How to text on WhatsApp first? How to set up device pairing? How to display company name and logo in chats? How to format text and use control characters? How to send emoji or other symbol via the API? How to run a VBA query? How to confirm the security code in WhatsApp? How to use polls as buttons? How to use a proxy server in WhatsApp? How to transfer your WhatsApp account to another phone? How to use the click to chat feature? How to make links in messages active? What are the statuses of messages in WhatsApp? How to identify your WhatsApp subscribers? How to get a green check mark in WhatsApp? How to protect personal data? How to register phone number on WhatsApp? How to log incoming calls in WhatsApp? Working with files via API Working with files via API How to send file by sendFileByUrl method using external storage? How to send a file? What file types does the API support? WhatsApp Errors WhatsApp Errors Why are incoming notifications slow (webhooks)? What to do with the error "WhatsApp is temporarily unavailable. Try again in 1 hour."? Why can not I connect the device to the API? What to do when receiving yellowCard status? Why is logout happening? Why messages are sent slowly? Why is the message status "sent"? What to do when receiving the error "Maximum number of devices connected"? Why does the SWE001 error often occur? Why are members not being added to the group? How can I prevent a QR session from being permanently disconnected? What to do when you receive a "Message Waiting" notification? Why can`t I download or update WhatsApp? Account blocking Account blocking How to protect number from ban? What to do if your instance is locked? What to do if your number is blocked? Why is re-blocking happening? How to make mailings without the risk of blocking? How to implement mailings via CRM? How does the use of the WA Business application affect the risk of blocking? Is there liability for messaging on WhatsApp if Meta Platforms Inc is prohibited in Russia? How to determine if WhatsApp has unblocked my number? What types of blocks can WhatsApp impose? How my WhatsApp number is protected from blocking? SDK Chatbots Integrations Releases Blog News FAQ Table of contents Video instruction Server setting Public IP address Our public IP-addresses which we sent webhooks from Incoming webhooks processing Instance setup Setting by SetSettings method Example of SetSettings method request body Setup in console Receive incoming webhooks Debug incoming webhooks Receive webhooks via Webhook Endpoint# Webhook Endpoint technology allows you to receive incoming webhooks directly to your server. This means that the Green API server will make a call to the method published on your server side. The advantage of this technology is the fastest possible receipt of incoming webhooks and high capacity, limited only by the rate of processing webhooks on your server side. The disadvantages include the implementation complexity. The Green API server makes attempts to deliver webhooks at 1-minute interval. Therefore, set up your server so that it is always available to process incoming webhooks, or use Receive webhooks via HTTP API technology. The delivery of incoming webhooks is guaranteed within 24 hours. The speed of sending webhooks is about 50 notifications per 1 second (20 ms per 1 webhook). Video instruction# Server setting# To receive incoming webhooks using Webhook Endpoint technology, you will need to complete the below steps: to publish the IP address on the internet to implement the logic for processing incoming webhooks to the specified IP address if required for the server, then set the Webhook URL Token Public IP address# To receive incoming webhooks, a public IP address (endpoint) is required, which will be accessible from the Internet. Thus, the Green API server will be able to make a call to your server at the specified address and transmit an incoming webhook. Our public IP-addresses which we sent webhooks from# You may specify the below IP address from which webhooks from us are received, in your server's security settings: 46.101.109.139 51.250.12.167 51.250.84.44 51.250.95.149 89.169.137.216 158.160.49.84 165.22.93.202 167.172.162.71 Incoming webhooks processing# After receiving an incoming call to the IP address of your server, you will need to process the received webhook. You can see the example of incoming webhook processing code on NodeJS in file Instance setup# Before receiving incoming webhooks, you need to set up your instance. Instance settings can be performed in software using SetSettings method, or online in console interface. Setting by SetSettings method# To set up receiving incoming webhooks using Webhook Endpoint technology, you need to specify your IP address or your domain name as the webhookUrl parameter, and, if necessary,webhookUrlToken to access your server. For example: https://84.211.100.201:3000/green-api/webhook/ It is also required to specify what types of webhooks you need to receive. To enable incoming webhooks by type, as well as to specify webhookUrl andwebhookUrlToken parameters, use SetSettings method. Example of SetSettings method request body# { "webhookUrl": "https://84.211.100.201:3000/green-api/webhook/", "webhookUrlToken": "dscnsdiuafkascndjhsalbcvatsvcbasn23rfregvfdg54tds", "outgoingWebhook": "yes", "stateWebhook": "yes", "incomingWebhook": "yes", "deviceWebhook": "no" } Setup in console# You can also set up to receive incoming webhooks online. To do this, go to console and select the required user instance. If the instance is authorized, the settings for receiving incoming webhooks will be displayed, see fig. Specify the webhookUrl parameter, as well as the switches by webhooks types and, if you need authorization on your webhook server, specify Webhook URL Token. If the instance is not authorized and the webhooks settings are not displayed, refer to Before you start section. Authorization If the WebhookURLToken parameter is not empty, our server will send a request to your server with an authorization header Authorization. If the Basic authorization type is used, the header will contain Basic <token>; When using Basic authorization, you need to pass a string like this to the webhookUrlToken field: Basic AuthToken If the Bearer authorization type is used, the header will contain Bearer <token>. When using Bearer authorization, you need to pass a string like this to the webhookUrlToken field: Bearer AuthToken If the authorization type is not specified, the default header will be Bearer <token>. When the authorization type is not specified, you need to pass a string like this to the webhookUrlToken field: Bearer AuthToken Receive incoming webhooks# After setting up the instance, you can start receiving webhooks. You can see the example of incoming webhook processing code: On NodeJS in file. On Python in file. Debug incoming webhooks# You can use any free service on the Internet to debug incoming webhooks, for example, Webhook.Site service. The service issues a unique address (URL), which is required to set as the webhookUrl parameter. A detailed description of incoming webhooks format is given in Incoming webhooks format section. Http request example that send by green-api: curl --request POST 'your-webhook-url-address' \ --header 'Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8' \ --data-raw '{"typeWebhook":"statusInstanceChanged","instanceData":{"idInstance":000001,"wid":"7123456789@c.us","typeInstance":"whatsapp"},"timestamp":1654553712,"statusInstance":"online"}'